Issue #91: Add example for example initialization (#97)
rust-unofficial/patterns: idioms/rustdoc-init.md

# Easy doc initialization

## Description

If a struct takes significant effort to initialize, when writing docs it can be quicker to wrap your example with a 
function the struct as an argument.

## Motivation
Sometimes there is a struct with multiple or complicated parameters and several methods.
Each of these methods should have examples. 

For example:

```rust
struct ExampleStruct {
    foo: Box<Foo>,
    count: AtomicI64,

> }

Reviewer: Can we use some more realistic example rather some weird example here?

Author: Done

Reviewer: Oh, nice example.

impl ExampleStruct {
    /// Does something important.
    /// # Example
    /// ```
    /// # //This is some really borring boiler plate to get an example working.
    /// # let baz = Baz::new(Bat::new(0, 1), 2, "Foo".to_owned());
    /// # let foo = Box::new(Foo::new(baz));
    /// # let example_struct = ExampleStruct{ foo: foo, count: AtomicI64::new(3) };
    /// let result = example_struct.bar();
    /// // do stuff with result.
    /// ```
    fn bar() -> u64 {
        
    }
    
    /// Oh no all that boiler plate needs to be repeated here !!!
    fn other_method() {
    }
}
```

## Example
Instead of typing all of this boiler plate to create an `ExampleStruct` it is easier to just create a dummy method to pass one in:
```rust
struct ExampleStruct {
    foo: Box<Foo>,
    count: AtomicI64,
}
impl ExampleStruct {
    /// Does something important.
    /// # Example
    /// ```
    /// # fn call_bar(example_struct: ExampleStruct) {

>     ///   let result = example_struct.bar();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// let result = example_struct.bar();
```

    /// // do stuff with result.
    /// # }
}
```
## Advantages

This is much more concise and avoids repetitive code in examples.

## Disadvantages

> Because the example is in a function, the code won't actually be tested. 

Reviewer: It could be tested by adding assertions.

Author: Added a comment mentioning no_run

It still will be compiled when running a `cargo test` but assertions can't be used to verify properties.

## Discussion

If assertions are not required this pattern works well. 
If they are, an alternative can be to create a method to create a dummy instance which is annotated with:

> `#[doc(hidden)]`

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this part.

Author: It is possible to create a public but hidden (IE does not show up in Rustdocs) method on a crate. And internally to that crates docs call this method. (Obviously such calls should also be hidden lest users see the method and get confused). 

Should I expand this into its own section?

Author: I added a bit more clarity

# Easy doc initialization

## Description

If a struct takes significant effort to initialize, when writing docs it can be quicker to wrap your example with a 
function the struct as an argument.

## Motivation
Sometimes there is a struct with multiple or complicated parameters and several methods.
Each of these methods should have examples. 

For example:

```rust

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

struct Connection {
    name: String,
    stream: TcpStream,

>     //...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

}

impl Connection {
    /// Sends a request over the connection.

>     /// # Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ///
    /// # Example
```

    /// ```no_run

>     /// # //This is some really borring boiler plate to get an example working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// # // This is some really borring boiler plate to get an example working.
```

    /// # let stream = TcpStream::connect("127.0.0.1:34254");

>     /// # let connection = Connection{ name: "Foo".to_owned(), stream: stream };
>     /// # let request = Request::new("ReuqestId", RequestType::Get, "dummy_payload");
>     /// let result = connection.send_reqest(request);
>     /// // do stuff with result.
>     /// ```
>     fn send_reqest(&self, request: Request) -> Result<Status, SendErr> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// # let connection = Connection { name: "foo".to_owned(), stream };
    /// # let request = Request::new("RequestId", RequestType::Get, "payload");
    /// let response = connection.send_request(request);
    /// assert!(response.is_ok());
    /// ```
    fn send_request(&self, request: Request) -> Result<Status, SendErr> {
```
Fix some typo

>         //...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // ...
```

    }
        

>     /// Oh no all that boiler plate needs to be repeated here !!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// Oh no, all that boilerplate needs to be repeated here!
```

    fn check_status(&self) -> Status {

>         //...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // ...
```

    }
}
```

## Example
Instead of typing all of this boiler plate to create an `Connection` and `Request` it is easier to just create a wrapping dummy function which takes them as arguments:

> ```rust
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```rust
```

struct Connection {
    name: String,
    stream: TcpStream,

>     //...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

}

impl Connection {
    /// Sends a request over the connection.

>     /// # Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ///
    /// # Example
```

>     /// ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// ```no_run
```

>     /// # fn call_send(connection: Connection, request: Request) {
>     /// let result = connection.send_reqest();
>     /// // do stuff with result.
>     /// # }
>     /// ```
>     fn send_reqest(&self, request: Request) {
>         //...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// # fn call_send(connection: Connection, request: Request) {
    /// let response = connection.send_request();
    /// assert!(response.is_ok());
    /// # }
    /// ```
    fn send_request(&self, request: Request) {
        // ...
```

Author: This should say "run" rather than "runned"

Author: I incorporated this, but moved the comment below so it wouldn't look part of the doc for `send_request`

    }
}
```
## Advantages

This is much more concise and avoids repetitive code in examples.

## Disadvantages

> Because the example is in a function, the code won't actually be tested. (Though it still will checked to make sure it compiles when running a `cargo test`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As example is in a function, the code will not be tested. (Though it still will checked to make sure it compiles when running a `cargo test`)
```

> So this pattern is most useful when you would need to add `no_run` anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So this pattern is most useful when need `no_run`. With this, you do not need to add `no_run`.
```

## Discussion

If assertions are not required this pattern works well. 

If they are, an alternative can be to create a public method to create a dummy instance which is annotated with `#[doc(hidden)]` (so that users won't see it).

> Then this method can be called inside of Rustdocs because it is part of the crate's public API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then this method can be called inside of rustdoc because it is part of the crate's public API.
```
